IMRaD format
Reference list format/citation
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/apa_style/apa_formatting_and_style_guide/general_format.html
Suggested POV: Smart city methodology tracking and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
 -> Sensors + Big Data + AI
Rather than going through 5. “Opportunities for Minimizing and Mitigating the Carbon Footprint in the Sustainable Smart City with Stakeholders” separately integrate it to each major topic: energy/waste – residential/commercial sector efficiency – mobility and freight
Introduction = The legal and technical necessity for reduction of carbon footprint

Mobility and freight: 
Utilization of AI orchestration enhanced control systems for industrial machinery and material flow architecture, improved material transportation ecosystems (supplier/vendor/consumer company – localization techniques, up-to-date gnns positioning, communication system localization with antennas (perhaps printed electronics?), material of the transporting packaging?, distance travelled/travelling method used also is the fuel low emission variant?)
Legal considerations? 
Greenhouse gas neutrality of the energy sector in Vaasa: (Concrete statistics needed for)

Tracking the ghg emissions of cities. Smart city sensor network required on everything relevant. (Industry decarbonisation, agriculture and food systems, circular economy, finance and investment, nature-based solutions, supporting energy communities, built environment, mobility). Energy management with machine learning. Sensor network architecture with energy harvesting.

The global push towards smart city infrastructure with particular focus on system efficiency encompasses all the relevant areas around greenhouse gas emissions. By enhancing the processing methods of the private sector alongside modifying the behaviour of the public sector with efficiency modifying smart systems we’re able to achieve decreased greenhouse gas emission rates through the natural evolution of intelligent ecosystems. These systems require substantial investments into big data warehousing, data processing and sensor network solutions, which will initially create a net increase in emission rates. However there are new underutilized technologies which may decrease the effects of this transition. One of them is energy harvesting in tandem with sensors (Passive, Exteroceptive, Proprioceptive). The primary emission concern of sensor networks after the manufacturing process is the energy supply aspect of the network. If the required energy can be supplied through direct or tertiary source harvesting, the burden through emissions could be substantially decreased within this domain. Additionally the incredible amounts of heat that the big data warehouses produce could be harvested to a larger extent, which in turn would also create more energy efficient systems. 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364032123006342
Furthermore the publication in the international journal of information management published an article that dealt with the topic of orchestrating energy efficient systems within smart cities through the utilization of machine learning algorithms. The requirement for adopting such a system is a method which holds nonlinear adaptability and time-series data utilization capacity. Especially important with the push for EV and their necessary charging stations. Path optimization for the public transportation sector for minimizes energy consumption with tandem navigation for each vehicle node.
Legal considerations?


Why the focus on energy? 
 
Electricity & heat sector accounted for 30.4% of the greenhouse gas emissions of the entire world and is by far the largest problem to tackle in this transformational time with investments into smart city ecosystems and artificial intelligence, both of which require substantial energy consumption and initial emission investments in the creation of the required infrastructure. Why shouldn’t we simply invest all our time and effort then towards the creation of traditional renewable systems? The simple answer is that the inefficiencies within the existing and future energy architecture will cause a substantial increase in emissions not only in their production, but there will be additional emission costs to upgrading these systems later down the line compared to redesigning these architectural paradigms and creating sustainable and autonomous energy systems in the present.
Vaasa is in the process of creating new IoT platforms in cooperation with Wapice in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make more streamlined and efficient transportation systems. Utilization of data akin to the previously mentioned study regarding ML?
https://www.vaasa.fi/en/news/intelligent-vaasa-iot-platform-reduces-carbon-footprint-streamlines-travelling-and-saves-costs/
Waste management of Vaasa – According to these sources the local cyclical economy has decreased the leftover waste to minimal quantity.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956053X22000277?via%3Dihub
https://www.uwasa.fi/sites/default/files/2022-06/Pekka-Peura-1.pdf

Reference list
Gaur, A., McClean, S., Parr, G., & Scotney, B. (2015). Smart City Architecture and its Applications Based on IoT. Procedia Computer Science, 52(1), 1089-1093. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050915009229
Gracias, J.S., Buchanan, R., Parnell, G.S., Pohl, E.A., & Specking, E. (2023). Smart  Cities—A Structured Literature Review. Smart Cities, 6(4), 1734-1735. https://doi.org/10.3390/smartcities6040080
Zekić-Sušac, M., Has, A., & Mitrović, S. (2021). Machine learning based system for managing energy efficiency of public sector as an approach towards smart cities. International Journal of Information Management, 58(1), 10. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0268401219302968
Intelligent Vaasa: IoT platform reduces carbon footprint, streamlines travelling and saves costs
https://www.vaasa.fi/en/news/intelligent-vaasa-iot-platform-reduces-carbon-footprint-streamlines-travelling-and-saves-costs/
Waste heat recoveries in data centers: A review
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364032123006342
Waste management and transition to a circular economy
https://www.uwasa.fi/sites/default/files/2022-06/Pekka-Peura-1.pdf
From garbage to product and service systems: A longitudinal Finnish case study of waste management evolution
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956053X22000277?via%3Dihub

European Green Capital/Leaf Award
https://circabc.europa.eu/ui/group/c6e126de-5b8c-4cd7-8d36-a1978a2a63de/library/10ab86b6-e1b8-4d49-bd99-3546ea340721/details



END WRITING:

Abstract: 

This article approaches the topic of greenhouse gas emissions within the city of Vaasa by studying the historical data presented by the city officials and lays the foundation for smart city advances that can still be made despite the advanced design of the city infrastructure. The utilization of solutions, which rely on artificial intelligence are discussed with particular emphasis on the sustainability of data warehouses and efficiently automating electricity grids from the point-of-view of electric vehicle infrastructure requirements. Furthermore smart housing solutions and waste management handling are covered in-depth.

1.
Smart cities in the context of carbon footprint reduction can be thought of as maximizing the utilization of resources within the urban environment through the design of sustainable and efficient systems that produce as little greenhouse gas emissions as possible, whilst maintaining a high quality of life for the residents (Gracias et al., 2023). The core of smart city infrastructure is the creation and utilization of data in vast quantities through data ecosystems that utilize the data sourced from the ground level sensors to create actionable data insights and efficiently automate processes through intelligent devices and algorithmic systems (Gaur et al., 2015). Smart cities as a topic are well researched on a generalized level, but the creation of carbon neutral systems is still ongoing research. 
The aim of this article was to create a holistic view of the realistic evolution of the smart city infrastructure throughout different public and private sectors, whilst taking into consideration the requirements from different stakeholders. The largest categories of ghg emissions are the energy generation and distribution, transportation, infrastructure and waste management sectors. Additionally, the impact of artificial intelligence upon these sectors and the requirements for this new technology to exist in a carbon neutral manner are discussed in detail. Furthermore, the manner which social mandate and legislative motions impact the design for future systems is explored from the point-of-view of sustainability.


2.
This article was built upon interpretative methods based on the subjective interpretation of the underlying scientific resources within the domain of smart cities. The aim of this paper was to build a cohesive and realistic image of the way smart city concepts could evolve the current urban and rural sectors, in order to decrease the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions generated by our modern world. The target of this case study was the city of Vaasa, which has made great strides in many of the categories this paper has addressed, but there were areas which could still be improved upon, especially with the advent of artificial intelligence and the infrastructural requirements for this booming technology.
Additional considerations were placed on the variety of stakeholders, which would be required to evolve pre-existing systems to ghg emission reducing variants or to redesign brand new replacement systems from the ground up. Furthermore, we took into consideration the 17 sustainable development goals of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) of the United Nations, in order to create systems, which follow the social mandate and legal considerations of the future in a sustainable and ethical way.

The article approached the topic of ghg emission reduction from the point-of-view of governmental and private sector actors, due to their comingled existence within the domain. In order for the governmental actors to influence the private sector to innovate in the realm of smart cities, the incentive structure must be enticing enough for the structured change to take place alongside carbon neutrality initiatives. The individual impact of the populace with their personal carbon footprints adds up significantly whilst observing Finland as a nation, but individual citizens have the capacity to create meaningful change with the choices we make in our daily lives and the political mandate we decide to pursue with carbon neutrality stances. The culminating thought behind this article is to explore these different sectors and how we can achieve meaningful change within our society.


3.1 
The electricity & heat sector accounts for third of the greenhouse gas emissions of the entire world and is by far the largest problem to tackle in this transformational time with investments into smart city ecosystems and artificial intelligence, both of which require substantial energy consumption and initial emission investments in the creation of the required infrastructure. 
Why shouldn’t we simply invest all our time and effort than towards the creation of traditional renewable systems? The simple answer is that the inefficiencies within the existing and future energy architecture will cause a substantial increase in emissions not only in their lifecycles, but there will be additional emission costs to upgrading these systems later down the line compared to redesigning these architectural paradigms and creating sustainable and autonomous energy systems in the present. 
The city of Vaasa has made great strides in reducing CO2 emissions despite a net increased consumption of energy from the year 1990 to 2021 according to the SECAP review (Vaasa, 2022). It is our belief that these emissions can be lowered even further by investing into sustainable infrastructure and optimization techniques based on artificial intelligence in a multitude of sectors within the city of Vaasa. 
In the following three images are the results from the SECAP review detailing the total energy consumption rates and percentage of total emissions caused by each category by the city of Vaasa in 1990 and 2021. This allows us to see the difference in consumption trends and how the ghg emission production has had a substantial decrease, whilst the sheer quantity of energy being consumed has increased over close to fourfold. Yet the quantity of CO2 emissions has been reduced to less than half of the amount in 1990.

Table 1. Vaasa SECAP-sector energy consumption (MWh) 1990 & 2021 (Vaasa, 2022).
 
Table 2. Vaasa SECAP emissions (t CO2) 1990 & 2021 (Vaasa, 2022).
 
 Figure 1. Vaasa SECAP all emission percentages by categories 1990 & 2021 (Vaasa, 2022).
Climate neutral Vaasa 202X project has lowered ghg emissions by opting for carbon-neutral energy sources within the city region, creation of carbon sinks and optimizing the public transportation system.  The city has highlighted their human capital to be their most valuable resource and plans to increase the investment allotment within the municipal finances and aims to create new career and networking opportunities to supply the experts required for such a transformation (Vaasa, 2023).
Futher investment into sustainable systems such as renewable energy generation, storage and transmission infrastructure have the capability of pushing the already shining example of sustainable design that is Vaasa past its current stage, by maximizing the efficient utilization of the existing resources. Machine learning based energy transmission algorithms such as proposed by Zekić-Sušac and collegues will be a cornerstone of energy efficient design within the electric grid systems of the future, especially with the focus on establishing charging stations and energy reserves for electric vehicles (Zekić-Sušac et al., 2023). Few of the largest issues stopping the EV revolution from taking over the entirety of the vehicle market is the lack of critical infrastructure and sheer quantity of energy required for their operation at all times. If we have the capacity to increase the supply further and make the cyclical energy economy more efficient between peak and low energy usage times with the charging stations, the transformation towards carbon neutral smart cities would take a tremendous leap forward into reality. With the commitment of Vaasa towards energy efficient and sustainable public transportation, this plan of action is all the more important.
Vaasa is also in the process of creating new IoT platforms in cooperation with Wapice in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make more streamlined and efficient transportation systems. Ensuring robust traffic control and pathfinding may lead to great decreases in emissions over a longer period of time through the reduction of idling (Vaasa, 2023). 




4.1 
The global push towards smart city infrastructure with particular focus on system efficiency encompasses all the relevant areas around greenhouse gas emissions. By enhancing the processing methods of the private sector alongside modifying the behaviour of the public sector with efficiency modifying smart systems we’re able to achieve decreased greenhouse gas emission rates through the natural evolution of intelligent ecosystems. These systems require substantial investments into big data warehousing, data processing and sensor network solutions, which will initially create a net increase in emission rates. However, there are new underutilized technologies which may decrease the effects of this transition. 
One of them is energy harvesting in tandem with sensors, internet of things devices and large-scale IT infrastructure designs. The primary concern of sensor networks after the manufacturing process is the energy supply aspect of the network. If the required energy can be supplied through direct or tertiary source harvesting, the burden through emissions could be substantially decreased within this domain. The end of lifecycle recycling is also a point of consideration, but the net aggregate benefit of well-designed sensor networks outstrips any of these considerations by orders of magnitude. Additionally, the incredible amounts of heat that the big data warehouses produce could be harvested with Seebeck phenomena-based energy harvesting and reapplied towards cooling with Peltier phenomena, which in turn would also create more energy efficient systems due to the reduction of waste heat within the IT infrastructure (Yuan et al., 2023). 
Furthermore, the publication in the international journal of information management published an article that dealt with the topic of orchestrating energy efficient systems within smart cities through the utilization of machine learning based algorithms. The requirements for adopting such a system are an algorithmic system, which holds nonlinear adaptability and time-series data utilization capacity. This is especially important with the push for electric vehicles and their necessary charging stations. Path optimization for the public transportation sector can also be conducted by optimizing for the shortest possible routes based on available positioning and localization data, which minimizes energy consumption for each vehicle node.








